#1.1 Installation
##Three ways to install Go
There are many ways to install Go environment in your computer, you can choose any one you like. We only show you three most common ways as following.

- Install from source code.
	- This the most popular way of installation for people who are familiar with Unix or Unix-like systems, especially when you are a developer.
- Use stardand installation package.
	- Go team provides convenient installation packages for Windows, Linux, Mac and other operating systems. This is the best way for new beginners.
- Use third-party tools.
	- There are many third-party tools for installing Go, like apt-get in Ubuntu, homebrew in Mac, etc. It requires you to know how to use these tools.
	
In case you want to install more than one version of Go in one computer, you should take a look at the tool called [GVM](https://github.com/moovweb/gvm). It is the best tool I've seen so far for achieving this job, otherwise you have to know how to deal with this problem by yourself.

##Install from source code
Because some parts of Go are written by Plan 9 C and AT&T Compilation, you have to install C compilers before you get into next step.

In Mac, once you install the Xcode, you have already had the compilers.

In Unix-like systems, you need install gcc or some other compilers. For example, you can install compilers by executing this command in your terminal `sudo apt-get install gcc libc6-dev` in Ubuntu.

In Windows, you need to install MinGW before you install gcc. Don't forget to config environment variables after finishing installation.( ***Everything looks like this means it's commented by translator: If you are using 64-bit Windows, you would better install 64-bit version of MinGW*** )

Go team uses [Mercurial](http://mercurial.selenic.com/downloads/) to manage source code, so you need to install this tool in order to download Go source code.

At this point, execute following command to clone Go source code, and start compiling.( ***It will clone source code to you current directory, switch your work path before you continue. Depends on your computer performance, it usually takes one minute, and one hour in Raspberry Pi*** )

	hg clone -u release https://code.google.com/p/go
	cd go/src
	./all.bash 
	
The installation will not be succeed until you see "ALL TESTS PASSED" on your screen.

The command above is Unix-style. It's not very different in Windows by running the all.bat.

