#1.2 $GOPATH and workspace
##$GOPATH
All go commands rely on one important environment variable, which is called $GOPATH. Be aware that this is not the $GOROOT where Go is installed. This variable points to the workspace of Go in your computer. (I will use the path in my computer, so if you don't have the same directory structure, please replace by yourself.)

In Unix-like systems, the variable should be used like 
	
	export GOPATH=/home/apple/mygo
	
In Windows, you need to create a new environment variable which is called GOPATH, then set its value as `c:\mygo`( ***The value depends on where your workspace is located*** )

It is OK to have more than one path(workspace) in $GOPATH, you have to use `:`(`;` in Windows) to break up them. At this point, `go get` will save the content to your first path in $GOPATH.

In $GOPATH, you must have three folders as following.

- `src` for source code, such as .go, .c, .g, .s, etc.
- `pkg` for compiled files, such as .a.
- `bin` for executable files

In this book, I will use `mygo` as my only path in $GOPATH.

##Package directory
Create package file and folders as `$GOPATH/src/mymath/sqrt.go` (`mymath` is the package name) ( ***Author uses `mymath` as his package name, and same name for the folder that contains package source code***)

Every time you craete a package, you should create a new folder in the `src` directory, folders' name usually as same as the package's that you are going to use, you can have multi-level directory if you want to. For example, you create directories `$GOPATH/src/github.com/astaxie/beedb`, then the package path is `github.com/astaxie/beedb`. The package name will be the last directory in your path, which is `beedb` in this case.

Execute following command. ( ***Now author goes back to talk examples*** )

	cd $GOPATH/src
	mkdir mymath
	
Create new file callde `sqrt.go`, type following content to your file.

	// Source code of $GOPATH/src/mymath/sqrt.go
	package mymath
	
	func Sqrt(x float64) float64 {
		z := 0.0
		for i := 0; i < 1000; i++ {
			z -= (z*z - x) / (2 * x)
		}
		return z
	}
	
Now my package directory is created and code work is done. I recommand you to keep same name for your package and the folder of package files.

##Compile packages
We've already created our package above, but how to compile it for practical? There are two ways to do it.

1. Switch your workpath to the directory of your package, then execute command `go install`.
2. Execute command `go install mymath`.

After compiled, we can open following folder.

	cd $GOPATH/pkg/${GOOS}_${GOARCH}
	// you can see following file
	mymath.a
	
This file whose suffix is `.a` is the binary file of our package, and now how can we use it?

Obviously, we need to create new application to use it.

Create new application package called `mathapp`.

	cd $GOPATH/src
	mkdir mathapp
	cd mathapp
	vim main.go
	
//$GOPATH/src/mathapp/main.go source code.

	package main
	
	import (
		"mymath"
		"fmt"
	)
	
	func main {
		fmt.Printf("Hello, world. Sqrt(2) = %v\n", mymath.Sqrt(2))
	}
	
To compile this application, you need to switch to the application directory which is `%GOPATH/src/mathapp` in this case, then execute command `go install`, now you can see an executable file called `mathapp` was produced in the `$GOPATH/bin/`. To run this program, use command `./mathapp`, you should see following content. 

	Hello world. Sqrt(2) = 1.414213562373095
	
##Install remote packages
Go has a tool for install remote packages is the command called `go get`, it supports most of open source communities, including github, googlecode, bitbucket, Launchpad.

	go get github.com/astaxie/beedb
	
If can use `go get -u …` to update your remote packages, and it will automatically install all the dependent packages as well.

This tool will use different version control tools for different open source platforms. For example, `git` for github, `hg` for googlecode. Therefore you have to install these version control tools before you use `go get`.

After executing the command above, the directory structure should look like following.

	$GOPATH
		src
		 |-github.com
		 	 |-astaxie
		 	 	 |-beedb
		pkg
		 |--${GOOS}_${GOARCH}
		 	 |-github.com
		 	 	 |-astaxie
		 	 	 	 |-beedb.a
		 	 	 	 
Actually, `go get` clones source code to $GOPATH/src of local file system, then executes `go install`.

To use remote packages is the same way as local packages.

	import "github.com/astaxie/beedb"
	
##Directory complete structure
If you followed all steps, your directory structure should look like following.

	bin/
		mathapp
	pkg/
		${GOOS}_${GOARCH}, such as darwin_amd64, linux_amd64
		mymath.a
		github.com/
			astaxie/
				beedb.a
	src/
		mathapp
			main.go
		mymath/
			sqrt.go
		github.com/
			astaxie/
				beedb/
					beedb.go
					util.go
					
Now we can see the directory clearly, `bin` is for executable files, `pkg` is for packages, `src` is for source files.

(The format of environment variables in Windows is `%GOPATH%`, this book mainly uses Unix-style, Windows users need to replace by yourself.)

##Links
- [Directory](preface.md)
- Previous section: [Installation](01.1.md)
- Next section: [Go commands](01.3.md)